# Test Driven Development Reflection

Tests driven development is a software development style where the tests for the classes/methods are written first before
their implementation. The purpose of doing this is to avoid the practice of writing tests according to the code. In practice, often, when we are writing tests to check the functionality of methods/classes that have previously been defined, our tests are written in a way that only test these methods/classes in the way we have defined it rather than testing it 
thoroughly without any sorts of preconceived notions/ biases. Test driven development, on the other hand, demands the developer to create the tests first and then write the method implementation later. This way, the developers can write the tests independently and not have any sort of preconceived notions guide testing. This results in writing tests that are more thorough and tests the functionality in a more fullproof manner. Another positive of doing TDD is that it makes the developer aware of the edge/boundary cases that exists so when someone actually starts writing code, tha person is aware of the edge cases that exist.On the other hand, with Behavior Driven Development we may not completely think through about the edge cases and while writing the tests as well, because of biases and preconceived notions about our code, we may forget to test for the corner cases. 

The purpose of writing the unit tests first for Light Sensor class and the Motion Handler methods was to get a feel of Test 
Driven Development. This was my first time doing TDD and the hardest part for me was figuring out where to start from because
I was not clear on what I was testing. Since I didn't have any of the methods, I started off by defining method headers
and then thought about the different situations my methods have to handle. This gave me a fair idea of what I need to be testing. The next step was coming up with the various cases that the method should be handling and also how should it be dealing with these cases. This included coming up with the various edge/boundary cases and bad input cases that the method could encounter.Once I started writing down test cases, subconciously I was also coming up with possible ways to code these methods. After finishing writing the tests, when I started writing the function definitions, I realized that a lot of the thinking had already been done while writing the unit tests. I had a plan figured out for each method already and in fact, I was more aware of the different cases especially the corner and bad input cases I need to be tackling (some of these cases would have been overlooked had I followed BDD). Hence even though test driven development doesn't come naturally to me, I realized that TDD is a good way to write code that is more thorough and fullproof because it makes you aware of the various edge cases that can otherwise be overlooked and is also a good way to test the functionality because there are no preconceived notions guiding testing.
